let's speak now to Danny Danon who's a
senior member of the knesset sits on
Israel's Foreign Affairs and defense
committee joins us live now from Tel
Aviv Mr danam welcome to Al jazer so 48
hours in 600 Israeli dead 300
Palestinians dead it's just a terrible
waste of life on all sides isn't
it you cannot say all side basically we
are still counting the casualties of the
vicious barbaric attack which was
provoked H we don't know the number
there of the number of Israelis who were
kidnapped into Gaza we have seen the
footage of of kids when I'm talking
about two years old kids who were
dragged by Hamas militants into Gaza
elderly that are sick are now in
captivity so once we will know the
numbers we will start to think about the
next stage and the next stage will be
retaliation against Hamas it will be
painful but we are determined to protect
ourselves and to make sure that it will
not happen again we'll come to further
Israeli action in just a second when you
say unprovoked is it time now to
consider as a matter of urgency the
cause and effect here that people living
under 56 years of military occupation of
15 years of blockade in Gaza of Israeli
settler violence every day this is going
to happen sooner or
later so let's talk about let's talk
about the facts we left Gaza 18 years
ago completely you cannot find even one
Jewish community in Gaza today you don't
have a single Jewish Home in Gaza and
look what happened Hamas took over
expelled the Palestinian Authority and
the people of Gaza under the occupation
of Hamas so when you speak about they
live under they completely trapped
inside The Enclave why you don't blame
the
Egyptians so why why you don't blame the
Egyptians you have a border in in Rafa
with Egypt they can bring from Egypt
whatever they want they can live toward
Egypt why you comeing blame Israel I I
think you shouldn't look for logic when
you deal with Hamas it's exactly like
Isis alqaeda when you deal with radical
Muslim militants don't look for
reasoning for excuses for Logics they
will always come against us when you
talk of further action from Israel what
form do you think that is going to take
are we talking a ground
incursion well I think the government
will have to declare the exact purpose
of of the operation my opinion that the
goal should be to eradicate Hamas
completely we will do a big favor for
the people of Gaza who live under the
occupation of Hamas the billions of
dollar that many Arab countries and
European countries contribute to Gaza
will not go to digging tunnels will go
for infrastructure for Education look
what happened in the last few years they
took all the money and they build the
military capability
to attack Israel exactly like they did
yesterday you must be concerned that
despite all the security there is around
Gaza all the surveillance that takes
place to uh the intelligence that goes
on that killing and death at this scale
Could
Happen absolutely you know we marked the
50th anniversary of the Yum kipur War
when we were CAU by surprise and
unfortunately it happened again you know
the Hamas used another another Jewish
holiday to attack us but we in the past
prove that we know to to stand up to get
together and to get the strength to come
together and to fight and that exactly
what's happening today the people of
Israel left all the discussions we had
and the argument we put it aside and
today we are United standing together
willing to fight evil willing to to
fight Hamas and we will defeat evil but
how how about the failure of
intelligence that allowed this to
happen well you know I I we have to look
into that and do the inquiry but but one
of the problem was that we we allowed
many protest and riots to get very close
to the fence and Hamas took advantage of
that to put explosives next to the fence
to to dig tunnels to the fence I think
in the fure future we will have to take
into consideration that no one should
get even closer to the
fans all right we'll leave it there
Danny Don on thanks very much indeed for
your time thank
you let's bring in our senior political
analyst Mar bishar joins us now from
Paris and Marin dare say that you were
listening into to that this is the thing
isn't it I mean this has been going on
for so long and it's reached this scale
and it surely is time now to look at the
cause and
effect absolutely and you know you and I
were speaking earlier and one of the
biggest problem for us in the media
especially uh visual like television and
so on is that we are too constrained by
the present and we're looking at images
and we will understand them right this
moment and probably most of us on in
television our memory you know dates
back 24 hours okay maybe 48 Hours the
problem for uh something like this is
that there's a 100 years and more of
History uh for this conflict now we
don't have to summarize 100 years of of
history but certainly we need to uh
signal that uh that there is uh you know
a root cause for the issue and unlike
what the uh former Ambassador says uh it
is totally logical uh for the occupied
to resist his occupier and and I kind of
jued down if you allow me Nick just
couple of quick points and this is not
you know to argue with the Ambassador
behind his back as it were but just to
make generally speaking some points
clear because we've he we've heard the
Sound by again and again as you said and
as he answered unprovoked you know
Israel has been an occupying power as we
said again and again for more than five
decades and it and it does every day in
the occupied territories what Hamas
did in the southern part of Israel but
not necessarily on the same scale
meaning Israeli soldiers Israeli armed
settlers roam Palestinian towns and
Villages and refugee camps and terrorize
the heck out of the pal Ians and that
happens every day every year every
decade for the past so many decades so
it is provoked the second thing is when
he said we withdrew from Gaza they did
not withdrew they withdrew the settlers
from Gaza but they redeployed outside
Gaza and they've been besieging Gaza
ever since again back to the logic he
says there is no logic but Israel
withdrew its uh settlers from Gaza and
redeployed its soldiers out of Gaza only
under the threat of force by Hamas
Israel would not have left Gaza if it
wasn't for the logic of force by Hamas
to basically kick them out and they
succeeded in doing that at least
partially so there is logic to
Palestinian resistance and then there is
the issue of we left Gaza so why are the
gazans resisting imagine if Israel would
be occupied and they would be left only
part of it and they say okay you now we
can leave the other to be occupied gazin
are Palestinians most of them are
refugees from his Palestine if you
redeploy AR Gaza doesn't mean it's okay
for you to occupy Jerusalem to occupy
the West Bank and so on so forth so it's
not okay to occupy the rest of the
Palestine if you only redeployed AR of
Gaza so yet another point and he says
once again we're going to eradicate
Hamas Israelis have said that forever if
for every time I heard that I'd have a
dollar I would probably be a millionaire
by now the last four Wars the Israelis
promised that they're going to eradicate
Hamas for the past five decades they
have promised that they're going to
eradicate Hamas four Wars later Hamas is
only getting stronger and stronger and
stronger compare this war with the 2008
War there's no comparison Hamas is far
more sophisticated far more deadly and
clearly far more terrorizing of Israel
than ever before and just one last Point
quickly just to say that Hamas did not
exist before the Israeli occupation
Hamas while it is Palestinian it is the
product it is the baby born of the
Israeli occupation Hamas is the product
of the occupation it only existed as of
1987 20 years after the occupation has
deepened in Palestinian society that
Hamas came to existence so Hamas is a
product of the occupation if the
occupation ends I'm not sure what the
Palestinians would produce probably more
liberals there so you say as we
discussed and I discussed with with
Danny D on that Palestinians have been
provoked there's no question they have
been perhaps they've been forced into
this you can argue H but the scale of
death and the seemingly indiscriminate
way it was carried
out that was not a good tactic was
it well but certainly it is tactic
because look uh this is not a a
conventional war between two armies or
between two states this is asymmetrical
war and allow me just a few seconds to
explain that to our viewers around the
world
asymmetrical
Warfare means that the two sides have
totally different standards of how they
measure their successes and failures and
totally different values of what does it
mean to struggle the cliche goes
Israelis defend their civilians
Palestinian Fighters hide behind their
souvenir which is not true but kind of
the image gives that impression but it's
the population in Gaza that protects its
Palestinians and now that the Israelis
bombard Gaza Hamas is going to get more
popular not less popular so while they
think they're going to eradicate Hamas
in fact Hamas will become stronger but
the Netanyahu government is becoming
weaker after the attack by Gaza so this
is an asymmetrical Warfare with totally
different means and tools and values and
means this not the same thing so we
cannot be judging them according to
Interstate International standards we
judge them according to asymmetrical
standards because they are very
different one is resisting occupation
does not have Air Force does not have
missiles does not have an army and
certainly does not have nuclear power so
their way of resisting is completely
different and I argue that they yes they
use Terror they're not terrorist
organizations but like all Guerilla
movements around the world for the past
two three centuries gorilla movements
and different Liberation movements use
Terror Hamas uses Terror Hamas
terrorized the pal the Israeli
population the sou paza they should own
up to it because it is an asymmetrical
conflict within an
asymmetrical all right that's our senior
political analyst m b thanks
my